>> Kevin Powell: Hello
my Frontend friends, and
welcome to this course on
building a website from scratch.
My name is Kevin, and I'm really
excited to bring you this course.
First of all, if you don't know me, I'm
an educator and online content creator.
And my joy is teaching people CSS and
helping them fall in love with it.
And if I can't help people
fall in love with CSS,
I'm hoping to at least help them be
a little bit less frustrated by it.
And I'm really excited for this project.
First of all, cuz I've been
invited here by Frontend Masters,
who I was a subscriber to a long time ago.
So it's really cool to be here in
the studio with them creating this course.
And second of all, because this type of
project of making something from scratch
just using vanilla HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript is my favorite thing to do, and
definitely my favorite thing to teach.
So I'm really looking forward to
bringing you through all the steps and
helping you learn a few
things along the way.
We're gonna be building out a website
based on a Figma design file that provides
us both with the desktop and mobile view.
So we'll be look making it completely
responsive, talking a bit about mobile
first, desktop first,
the best ways to approach those things.
And try to match our file as closely as
possible as we go through everything.
And we're gonna be doing it,
as I mentioned just with HTML, CSS, and
Vanilla JavaScript.
There's a place for frameworks and
everything else along the way, but
just getting down into the fundamentals
is my favorite thing to do.
So we're gonna be going through all of
those as we progress through this course.
And because we are talking about
the fundamentals, just for
who this course is for, I am assuming
that you've already written some HTML and
CSS up until this point.
You have an idea of how the text editor
works and the basics of all of that.
Don't need to have tons of experience
with it, but enough on semantic elements,
CSS selectors,
and the different types of selectors and
how they work, and a bit on specificity.
And just having covered the basics and
built some smaller projects will really
help you out,
if you're starting out on this course.
We will be using some JavaScript as well,
we're not gonna be doing too much, but
a little bit of a base in there
will help you out definitely.
If you've never touched it, you'll still
be able to follow along as well, though.
So it's not essential,
but a little bit of JavaScript knowledge
will definitely be beneficial.
And one thing I wanna be doing with this
course is also ensuring that we're looking
at the big picture and looking at how we
can approach a project with the figment
design like we're gonna have.
To be able to dive in and
build it in the proper way and
doing it with maintainable practices.
So we're not just jumping into it,
looking at the first thing on the page and
coding that up.
We're gonna start by analyzing
the project, breaking it all down.
And really setting ourselves up for
success from the very beginning.
So it takes a little bit longer to
really get into the nitty gritty of it.
But once we get to those stages,
everything just sorta falls into
place as we go through everything.
We're gonna be exploring different naming
conventions you can use in your CSS,
and I'm gonna be offering up
a few different things, just so
you can choose sorta the approach
that you think works best.
But I'll be talking about it in the larger
idea of how to best keep your CSS
organized as well.
And along the way, we're gonna look at
also adding in some fun animations and
transitions and other things that
can help with the user experience.
So if all of that sounds good to you,
then this is the right course for you and
I'm really excited to dive in,
so let's go.
Now, just before we dive into
the actual code and all of that,
a few things that you'll need before
you get started is an editor.
You've already been writing some HTML and
CSS, so I'm assuming that you already have
one of preference,
I'll be using VS code as I go through it.
So if you wanna have the same experience
and be able to follow along easily,
you might wanna use VS code.
But if you have another one that you like
better, that's completely fine, you're
free and welcome to use that one, though
I will be recommending two extensions,
the first one is Live Server and
the second one is Prettier.
Live Server just makes our life a lot
easier in that it refreshes the page for
us every time we save, so
we don't have to do that ourselves.
And Prettier takes care of
a lot of the formatting for us.
So if you have messy code,
you hit save, and
all the indentation
formatting is fixed for you.
There is a little bit of configuration
to get Prettier working, by default,
you'll install it.
It says it's there, it says it's working,
and it doesn't actually do anything.
So early on in the course, we'll look
at how we can make sure that it's
actually working properly as well,
once you have it installed.
Speaking of the VS code and
just things that match what I have,
if you do like the setup I have,
people often ask me about my theme and
my font, so
I've linked them in the course page.
So it's one dark pro var night and
Cascadia code is the font that I'm using.
So there's links to both of
those in the course page.
Another thing that you will need is,
we will be talking a bit about version
control as we go through this course.
So you will need to have Git
installed on your computer.
If you've used Git or GitHub or anything
like that before, you'll already have it.
If you don't know if you have it or not,
you can just follow the link in the course
page, it's going to bring
you to the download area.
Download it, a few clicks,
it gets installed on your computer and
you're ready to go.
And with that, I'd also recommend
having an account with GitHub,
you can use one of the alternatives.
If you're already using one of them,
that's completely fine, but
I will be using GitHub throughout this.
So if you wanna match my experience,
then I would recommend GitHub.
And I'm also gonna be using VS Codes
built in GitHub integrations.
So it just makes life a little bit easier.
So, once again,
if you're following along with me,
the easiest thing to do is
to have them the same way.
But if you're comfortable with get already
know how to do it in the command line,
then you'll be fine following
however you wanna do it.
And last but not least, there is Netlify.
We're gonna be looking at getting this
site online as well, and I'm gonna be
using Netlify as the hosting for this,
it's really easy to get going with it.
It's completely free to have an account
and host your websites with it.
So if you don't already
have an account with them,
you can set up an account now before
you dive in, it's really easy to do.
Just like with GitHub,
there are alternative solutions.
So there's cloud for pages, there's GitHub
pages, just to name a couple of them,
there's also a lot of other ones.
If you're more comfortable, you're
already having an account with that, and
you know how all of that works,
that's completely fine.
But once again, I'll be using
Netlify as I go through this,
so if you want to follow along
with the steps I'm doing,
then I would suggest setting
up an account with Netlify.